The Museum of Science (MoS) is a Boston, Massachusetts landmark, located in Science Park, a plot of land spanning the Charles River. Along with over 500 interactive exhibits, the Museum features a number of live presentations throughout the building every day, along with shows at the Charles Hayden Planetarium and the Mugar Omni IMAX theater, the only domed IMAX screen in New England. The Museum is also an accredited member of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) and is home to over 100 animals, many of which have been rescued and rehabilitated from various dangerous situations. 

Exhibit Halls
Blue Wing [5]
Butterfly Garden
Seeing is Deceiving
Making Models
Mathematica
Theater of Electricity
Innovative Engineers
Investigate!
Nanotechnology
Take a Closer Look
Dinosaurs
Machines & Transportation
Living on the Edge
To the Moon
Cahners Computer Place
Green Wing
Human Body Connection
Birth
Tamarins & Chicks
New England Habitats
A Bird's World
Colby Room
Red Wing
Mugar Omni Theater
Charles Hayden Planetarium
Cosmic Light
Discovery Center
Miscellaneous
Natural Mysteries
Audio-kinetic Sculpture

Live Presentations
The Museum offers many free live presentations to the visitors including:
Behind the Headline
Explores the an exciting science and technology story that's in the news.
Behind the Headline- An Uncertain Climate
Look at recent climate study, talk about uncertainties surrounding climate science, and discuss how to make better choices for our planet.
Hands-On Laboratory
Encourages visitors of all ages to explore a variety of topics in science.
Design Challenges
Introduce visitors to the engineering design cycle.
Lightning!
Indoor bolts are produced by world's largest Van de Graaff generator including talk on lightning, electric charge, and storm safety.
Live Animal Presentation
Explore the adaptation, behaviors, ecology, and environments of animals with the museum's animal residents.
Science Live!
Talk about live scientific discoveries
Science Magic
Science will recreate some of your favorite magic tricks.
Science Snapshot
Latest scientific and technological developments in our lives are talked about.